=pod

=head1 NAME

oprt-install - better alternative to C<pkgmk -d -i>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

oprt-install [port...]

I<port> can be a port name, a port directory, or missing (and the current directory will be used instead).

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Why is this tool more useful than the fancy one or C<prt-get install>?

=over 4

=item automatic use of C<sudo>

There is no point (yet) in running C<pkgadd> without C<sudo> in order to install the package (when the current user is not B<root>).

=item automatic upgrade

If the package is installed, B<pkgadd> will be called with I<--upgrade>.

=item automatic use of C<fakeroot>

Currently, there are still a few ports that can't be packaged correctly if not built with C<fakeroot>. If the user is not B<root>, the B<pkgmk> will be started with C<fakeroot>.

=item grpinstall behavior

When used to install multiple ports at once, if one fails, the installation will stop and the previously installed ports will be removed.

=item automatic recover from some errors

In case of a footprint mismatch, the user is asked about what to do (if the shell is interactive): ignore, ignore+remember or abort.

In case of a checksum error, the user is asked what to do, and the B<pkgmk> will be restarted with the proper arguments to avoid that error.

Same with B<pkgadd>, to force the installation.

=item logging

Package installation is logged to F<$OPRT_DIR/<port>.build.log>. If the installation failed, the log is renamed to I<*.failed>. See oprt-cleanup(1).

=item flexible port selection

The port can be the current directory or any other port directory. This way you can pick the port from the right collection:

	oprt-install /usr/ports/collection/port

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item B<OPRT_INSTALL_REASON> (default: request)

Other common values are I<update>, I<reinstall>, I<rebuild> and I<depend>.

=item B<OPRT_BUILD_WITH_FAKEROOT> (default: unset)

If set, B<fakeroot> will be used with B<pkgmk>, regardless B<$UID>.

This should fix some builds (eg. dbus) when running in a container that fakes the current user to be root (UID=0). However, only B<fakeroot> can handle B<chown>.

=item B<OPRT_INSTALL_WITH_FORCE> (default: unset)

If set, C<pkgadd --force> will be used.

=item B<OPRT_INSTALL_IGNORING_FOOTPRINT> (default: unset)

If set, it will ignore footprint errors. Usefull when testing ports.

=item B<OPRT_DONT_RUN_SCRIPTS> (default: unset)

Don't run pre/post install scripts.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

prt-get(8), ports(8)

=cut
