=pod

=head1 NAME

oprt - collection of tools to manage CRUX ports

=head1 SYNOPSIS

oprt tool ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<oprt> tools are intended to help you save some keystrokes when managing ports, regardless of the number of port collections used.

=head1 TOOLS

=over 4

=item B<cleanup> (see oprt-cleanup(1))

Cleanup.

=item B<collections> (see oprt-collections(1))

Show the collections having a specific port.

=item B<depinst> (see oprt-depinst(8))

Install ports with all their dependencies.

=item B<deporder> (see oprt-deporder(1))

Post-process deptree to show one possible order in which the packages should be built.

=item B<depsearch> (see oprt-depsearch(1))

Search packages which depend on some port.

=item B<deptree> (see oprt-deptree(1))

Show dependencies tree.

=item B<diff> (see oprt-diff(1))

Show outdated ports.

=item B<dsearch> (see oprt-dsearch(1))

Search ports descriptions.

=item B<fsearch> (see oprt-fsearch(1))

Search ports footprints.

=item B<info> (see oprt-info(1))

Show port info.

=item B<info-all> (see oprt-info-all(1))

Like B<info>, but it will show the content of all the files from the port directory.

=item B<install> (see oprt-install(8))

Install ports.

=item B<pkgfile-deps> (see oprt-pkgfile-deps(1))

Shows the direct port dependencies.

=item B<reinstall> (see oprt-reinstall(8))

Rebuild and reinstall ports.

=item B<remove> (see oprt-remove(8))

Remove ports.

=item B<search> (see oprt-search(1))

Search ports by name.

=item B<update> (see oprt-update(8))

Update ports (upgrades/downgrades).

=item B<watch> (see oprt-watch(1))

Watch for source updates.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ports(8), pkgmk(8), pkgadd(8), pkgrm(8), pkginfo(8), ports(8)

=cut
